Article: Added WLED article for the powered by community series (#349)
espressif/developer-portal: content/blog/2025/01/wled-powered-by-the-community/index.md

{{< figure
    src="assets/web-main.webp"
    alt="WLED web interface - Welcome"
    caption="WLED web interface - Welcome"
>}}

{{< figure
    src="assets/web-control.webp"
    alt="WLED web interface - Control"
    caption="WLED web interface - Control"
>}}

{{< figure
    src="assets/web-config.webp"
    alt="WLED web interface - Configuration"
    caption="WLED web interface - Configuration"
>}}

### Mobile application

To get easy access to all WLED instances in your local network, you can use the mobile application:

- [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=ca.cgagnier.wlednativeandroid)
- [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/wled-native/id6446207239)

### Next steps

The WLED website provides an outstanding [getting started guide](https://kno.wled.ge/basics/getting-started/) that will show you everything you need to know about the project and how to start your own WLED application. You can also find an extensive list of [tutorials](https://kno.wled.ge/basics/tutorials/) from the very active community.

To explore more options, interfaces, integration, and more, do take a deeper look into the [WLED site](https://kno.wled.ge)!

### Hardware

> For testing purposes, we tried the [ESP32-C3-Lyra V2.0](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-adf/en/latest/design-guide/dev-boards/user-guide-esp32-c3-lyra.html) due to the easy integration with LED strips.
> 
> This board integrates 2 interfaces for LED strips (addressable and regular RGB) with a 12V DC power port connector. The DC power connector facilitates the use of 12V LED strips and you can use just one power supply to power the LEDs and the ESP32-C3.
> 
> The LED interface used for the test was the **Addressable LED Strip Port**. Currently, the **RGB LED Strip Port** is not supported by the WLED project.

Reviewer: This information can probably be made even easier to follow. Suggest the following updates:

```suggestion
To test the WLED project, we chose the [ESP32-C3-Lyra V2.0](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-adf/en/latest/design-guide/dev-boards/user-guide-esp32-c3-lyra.html) due to a number of features that simplify integration with LED strips.

First and foremost, as you can see in the overview of components below, this board integrates two interfaces for LED strips:

- Addressable LED strip port (supported by WLED and used during testing)
- RGB LED strip port (not supported by WLED)

A 12V DC power port connector allows for direct use of 12V LED strips. It means that only one power supply is needed to power both the ESP32-C3 and the LEDs.

In addition, this board integrates a microphone for sound reactivity and an IR receiver for remote control; however, we didn't try these features during our tests.
```

{{< figure
    src="assets/esp32-c3-lyra-isometric-raw.webp"
    alt="ESP32-C3-Lyra V2.0"
    caption="ESP32-C3-Lyra V2.0"
>}}

> This board also integrates a microphone for sound reactivity and an IR receiver for remote control; however, these features were not tested.

Reviewer: You highlight important features in the paragraphs above the picture. Why not place this short paragraph describing other useful features above the picture as well?

Why break the flow with a picture?

Another thing: `however, these features were not tested.` sounds like these hardware components were not tested on the board and might not work.

My previous comment already integrates this information and proposes how to streamline it. If you agree with the proposed changes, please remove this paragraph accordingly.

Author: Removed!

#### ESP32-C3-Lyra overview of components

{{< figure
    src="assets/esp32-c3-lyra-layout-front.webp"
    alt="ESP32-C3-Lyra overview of components"
    caption="ESP32-C3-Lyra overview of components"
>}}

> ESP32-C3-Lyra is an ESP32-C3-based audio development board produced by Espressif for controlling light with audio. The board has control over the microphone, speaker, and LED strip, perfectly matching customers’ product development needs for ultra-low-cost and high-performance audio broadcasters and rhythm light strips.

> As mentioned before, the support for the ESP32-C3 is still experimental and you can use for testing purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, the support for the ESP32-C3 is still experimental, but you can use it for testing purposes.

```

## Conclusion

WLED is one of the most popular community projects based on the Arduino core that uses the ESP32 and the ESP8266 and it's actively maintained by the community. The project offers very intuitive documentation, making it easy for everyone to use the project without the need of creating the build environment or dealing with complex setup.

Thanks to all the project contributors for giving such an amazing solution for controlling LEDs.

## References

- [WLED official site](https://kno.wled.ge)

> - [The project on GitHub](https://github.com/Aircoookie/WLED)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [WLED GitHub repo](https://github.com/Aircoookie/WLED)

```
